* Visual Studio Code Installation:
    1. Download VS Code by visiting the Visual Studio Code download page.
    2. Click on the Windows download button to download the installer.
    3. Run the Installer.
    4. Follow the installation prompts.
    5. Accept the license agreement.
    6. Choose the destination folder.
    7. Select additional tasks (e.g., creating a desktop icon, adding to the PATH).
    8. Click the "Install" button.
    9. Once the installation is complete, you can choose to launch Visual Studio Code immediately.
    10. Launch VS Code.

    Significant challenges: Picking the correct setup file.



* Version Control Creation:
    1. Download Git by visiting the Git for Windows download page.
    2. Download the installer.
    3. Locate the downloaded installer file and double-click it to run.
    4. Follow the installation prompts, choosing the default options for most steps unless you have specific needs.
    5. Open the Command Prompt or Git Bash.

    Significant challenges: Linking git to my github account.



* Python Installation:
    1. Download Python by visiting the Python Downloads page.
    2. Click on the download button for the latest Python release for Windows.
    3. Locate the downloaded installer file and double-click it to run.
    4. In the installer window, make sure to check the box that says "Add Python to PATH". 
       This will add Python to your system environment variables, making it accessible from the command line.
    5. Click "Install Now" and follow the prompts to complete the installation.
    6. To verify the Installation, open Command Prompt, type python --version and press Enter to verify that Python is installed correctly.

    Significant challenges: Adding python binaries to environment variables.



* Python Package Manager (pip) Installation:
    1. Verify Python installation by opening Command Prompt and typing:
       python --version.

    Note: pip is included with python 3.4 and later.

    2. To Install pip, download get-pip.py and save it to a directory.
    3. Open Command Prompt and navigate to the directory where you saved get-pip.py.
    4. Run the following command:
       python get-pip.py
    5. After the installation completes, verify pip installation by typing:
       pip --version
    
    Significant challenges: Understanding what pip is meant for.



* MySQL Installation:
    1. Download MySQL Installer by visiting the MySQL Downloads page.
    2. Download the MySQL Installer for Windows.
    3. Locate the downloaded installer file and double-click it to run.
    4. Choose the setup type, "Developer Default" is a what I chose,
       but you can choose "Server only" if you only need the MySQL server.
    5. Choose the server configuration type (I chose Development Computer).
    6. Set a strong root password.
    7. Configure MySQL as a Windows Service (recommended).
    8. Finish the installation and start the MySQL server.
    9. To Verify the Installation:
        Open Command Prompt.
        Type mysql -u root -p and press Enter.
        Enter the root password you set during installation to access the MySQL command-line tool.

    Significant challenges: Starting and stopping MySQL Server.



* IDE Extensions and Plugins:
    The following are some of the pluins I have installed on VSCode:
        1. Dart
        2. Python
        3. Flutter
        4. Pylance
        5. Prettier
        6. Live Server
        7. SQLTools
        8. WSL
        9. Python Debugger
        10. Jupyter

    Significant challenges: No significant challenges encountered.